source/privacy/index.markdown, before:

---
title: "Privacy Policy"
description: "Your privacy is super important to us. We will never gather any information from you unless we truly need it."
sidebar: false
---

Your privacy is critically important to us. At Home Assistant, we have a few fundamental principles:

- We don’t ask you for personal information unless we truly need it. (We can’t stand services that ask you for things like your gender or income level for no apparent reason.)
- We don’t share your personal information with anyone except to comply with the law, develop our products, or protect our rights.
- We don’t store personal information on our servers unless required for the ongoing operation of one of our services.

If you have questions about deleting or correcting your personal data please contact our support team.

## Website Visitors

Like most website operators, Home Assistant collects non-personally-identifying information of the sort that web browsers and servers typically make available, such as the browser type, language preference, referring site, and the date and time of each visitor request. Home Assistant uses the Google Analytics service for this. Home Assistant’s purpose in collecting non-personally identifying information is to better understand how Home Assistant’s visitors use its website. From time to time, Home Assistant may release non-personally-identifying information in the aggregate, e.g., by publishing a report on trends in the usage of its website.

Home Assistant also collects potentially personally-identifying information like Internet Protocol (IP) addresses for logged in users and for users leaving comments on the blog or forums. Home Assistant only discloses logged in user and commenter IP addresses under the same circumstances that it uses and discloses personally-identifying information as described below.

## Gathering of Personally-Identifying Information

Certain visitors to Home Assistant’s websites choose to interact with Home Assistant in ways that require Home Assistant to gather personally-identifying information. The amount and type of information that Home Assistant gathers depends on the nature of the interaction. For example, we ask visitors who create a forum account to provide a username and an email address. Those who engage in transactions with Home Assistant are asked to provide additional information, including as necessary the personal and financial information required to process those transactions. In each case, Home Assistant collects such information only insofar as is necessary or appropriate to fulfill the purpose of the visitor’s interaction with Home Assistant. Home Assistant does not disclose personally-identifying information other than as described below. And visitors can always refuse to supply personally-identifying information, with the caveat that it may prevent them from engaging in certain website-related activities.

## Aggregated Statistics

Home Assistant may collect statistics about the behavior of visitors to its websites. For instance, Home Assistant may monitor the most popular integration documentation. Home Assistant may display this information publicly or provide it to others. However, Home Assistant does not disclose personally-identifying information other than as described below.

## Information We Collect from Other Sources

With your authorization, we may also obtain information about you from other sources. For example, if you create or log into your Home Assistant Community account through a social media service (like Facebook or Google) or if you connect your account to a social media service, we will receive information from that service (such as your username, basic profile information, and friends list) via the authorization procedures used by that service. The information we receive depends on which services you authorize and any options that are available.

## Protection of Certain Personally-Identifying Information

Home Assistant discloses potentially personally-identifying and personally-identifying information only to those of its employees, contractors and affiliated organizations that (i) need to know that information in order to process it on Home Assistant’s behalf or to provide services available at Home Assistant’s websites, and (ii) that have agreed not to disclose it to others. Some of those employees, contractors and affiliated organizations may be located outside of your home country; by using Home Assistant’s websites, you consent to the transfer of such information to them. Home Assistant will not rent or sell potentially personally-identifying and personally-identifying information to anyone. Other than to its employees, contractors and affiliated organizations, as described above, Home Assistant discloses potentially personally-identifying and personally-identifying information only in response to a subpoena, court order or other governmental request, or when Home Assistant believes in good faith that disclosure is reasonably necessary to protect the property or rights of Home Assistant, third parties or the public at large. If you are a registered user of an Home Assistant website and have supplied your email address, Home Assistant may occasionally send you an email to tell you about new features, solicit your feedback, or just keep you up to date with what’s going on with Home Assistant and our products. We primarily use our various product blogs to communicate this type of information, so we expect to keep this type of email to a minimum. If you send us a request (for example via a support email or via one of our feedback mechanisms), we reserve the right to publish it in order to help us clarify or respond to your request or to help us support other users. Home Assistant takes all measures reasonably necessary to protect against the unauthorized access, use, alteration or destruction of potentially personally-identifying and personally-identifying information.

## Cookies

A cookie is a string of information that a website stores on a visitor’s computer, and that the visitor’s browser provides to the website each time the visitor returns. Home Assistant uses cookies to help Home Assistant identify and track visitors, their usage of Home Assistant website, and their website access preferences. Home Assistant visitors who do not wish to have cookies placed on their computers should set their browsers to refuse cookies before using Home Assistant’s websites, with the drawback that certain features of Home Assistant’s websites may not function properly without the aid of cookies.

## Business Transfers

If Home Assistant, or substantially all of its assets, were acquired, or in the unlikely event that Home Assistant goes out of business or enters bankruptcy, user information would be one of the assets that is transferred or acquired by a third party. You acknowledge that such transfers may occur, and that any acquirer of Home Assistant may continue to use your personal information as set forth in this policy.

## Ads

Ads appearing on any of our websites may be delivered to users by advertising partners, who may set cookies. These cookies allow the ad server to recognize your computer each time they send you an online advertisement to compile information about you or others who use your computer. This information allows ad networks to, among other things, deliver targeted advertisements that they believe will be of most interest to you. This Privacy Policy covers the use of cookies by Home Assistant and does not cover the use of cookies by any advertisers.

## Companion Applications

All information collected by the applications is sent directly to your hosted instance of Home Assistant. This includes, but is not limited to, sensor data and location data, which at times is sent while the application is in the background. At no point is this data logged or given to a 3rd party.

## Privacy Policy Changes

Although most changes are likely to be minor, Home Assistant may change its Privacy Policy from time to time, and in Home Assistant’s sole discretion. Home Assistant encourages visitors to frequently check this page for any changes to its Privacy Policy. Your continued use of this site after any change in this Privacy Policy will constitute your acceptance of such change.

### Change log

- October 19, 2017: Initial version
- October 19, 2020: Add information about Companion Applications

_This privacy policy has been adapted from the [Automattic privacy policy][Home Assistant] and is licensed [Creative Commons ShareAlike][cc]._

[Home Assistant]: https://automattic.com/privacy/
[cc]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/

Commit message:

Update privacy policy per discussion for health features (#35492)
* Update privacy policy per discussion for health features

* Update change log

source/privacy/index.markdown, after:

---
title: "Privacy Policy"
description: "Your privacy is super important to us. We will never gather any information from you unless we truly need it."
sidebar: false
---

Your privacy is critically important to us. At Home Assistant, we have a few fundamental principles:

- We don’t ask you for personal information unless we truly need it. (We can’t stand services that ask you for things like your gender or income level for no apparent reason.)
- We don’t share your personal information with anyone except to comply with the law, develop our products, or protect our rights.
- We don’t store personal information on our servers unless required for the ongoing operation of one of our services.

If you have questions about deleting or correcting your personal data please contact our support team.

## Website Visitors

Like most website operators, Home Assistant collects non-personally-identifying information of the sort that web browsers and servers typically make available, such as the browser type, language preference, referring site, and the date and time of each visitor request. Home Assistant uses the Google Analytics service for this. Home Assistant’s purpose in collecting non-personally identifying information is to better understand how Home Assistant’s visitors use its website. From time to time, Home Assistant may release non-personally-identifying information in the aggregate, e.g., by publishing a report on trends in the usage of its website.

Home Assistant also collects potentially personally-identifying information like Internet Protocol (IP) addresses for logged in users and for users leaving comments on the blog or forums. Home Assistant only discloses logged in user and commenter IP addresses under the same circumstances that it uses and discloses personally-identifying information as described below.

## Gathering of Personally-Identifying Information

Certain visitors to Home Assistant’s websites choose to interact with Home Assistant in ways that require Home Assistant to gather personally-identifying information. The amount and type of information that Home Assistant gathers depends on the nature of the interaction. For example, we ask visitors who create a forum account to provide a username and an email address. Those who engage in transactions with Home Assistant are asked to provide additional information, including as necessary the personal and financial information required to process those transactions. In each case, Home Assistant collects such information only insofar as is necessary or appropriate to fulfill the purpose of the visitor’s interaction with Home Assistant. Home Assistant does not disclose personally-identifying information other than as described below. And visitors can always refuse to supply personally-identifying information, with the caveat that it may prevent them from engaging in certain website-related activities.

## Aggregated Statistics

Home Assistant may collect statistics about the behavior of visitors to its websites. For instance, Home Assistant may monitor the most popular integration documentation. Home Assistant may display this information publicly or provide it to others. However, Home Assistant does not disclose personally-identifying information other than as described below.

## Information We Collect from Other Sources

With your authorization, we may also obtain information about you from other sources. For example, if you create or log into your Home Assistant Community account through a social media service (like Facebook or Google) or if you connect your account to a social media service, we will receive information from that service (such as your username, basic profile information, and friends list) via the authorization procedures used by that service. The information we receive depends on which services you authorize and any options that are available.

## Protection of Certain Personally-Identifying Information

Home Assistant discloses potentially personally-identifying and personally-identifying information only to those of its employees, contractors and affiliated organizations that (i) need to know that information in order to process it on Home Assistant’s behalf or to provide services available at Home Assistant’s websites, and (ii) that have agreed not to disclose it to others. Some of those employees, contractors and affiliated organizations may be located outside of your home country; by using Home Assistant’s websites, you consent to the transfer of such information to them. Home Assistant will not rent or sell potentially personally-identifying and personally-identifying information to anyone. Other than to its employees, contractors and affiliated organizations, as described above, Home Assistant discloses potentially personally-identifying and personally-identifying information only in response to a subpoena, court order or other governmental request, or when Home Assistant believes in good faith that disclosure is reasonably necessary to protect the property or rights of Home Assistant, third parties or the public at large. If you are a registered user of an Home Assistant website and have supplied your email address, Home Assistant may occasionally send you an email to tell you about new features, solicit your feedback, or just keep you up to date with what’s going on with Home Assistant and our products. We primarily use our various product blogs to communicate this type of information, so we expect to keep this type of email to a minimum. If you send us a request (for example via a support email or via one of our feedback mechanisms), we reserve the right to publish it in order to help us clarify or respond to your request or to help us support other users. Home Assistant takes all measures reasonably necessary to protect against the unauthorized access, use, alteration or destruction of potentially personally-identifying and personally-identifying information.

## Cookies

A cookie is a string of information that a website stores on a visitor’s computer, and that the visitor’s browser provides to the website each time the visitor returns. Home Assistant uses cookies to help Home Assistant identify and track visitors, their usage of Home Assistant website, and their website access preferences. Home Assistant visitors who do not wish to have cookies placed on their computers should set their browsers to refuse cookies before using Home Assistant’s websites, with the drawback that certain features of Home Assistant’s websites may not function properly without the aid of cookies.

## Business Transfers

If Home Assistant, or substantially all of its assets, were acquired, or in the unlikely event that Home Assistant goes out of business or enters bankruptcy, user information would be one of the assets that is transferred or acquired by a third party. You acknowledge that such transfers may occur, and that any acquirer of Home Assistant may continue to use your personal information as set forth in this policy.

## Ads

Ads appearing on any of our websites may be delivered to users by advertising partners, who may set cookies. These cookies allow the ad server to recognize your computer each time they send you an online advertisement to compile information about you or others who use your computer. This information allows ad networks to, among other things, deliver targeted advertisements that they believe will be of most interest to you. This Privacy Policy covers the use of cookies by Home Assistant and does not cover the use of cookies by any advertisers.

## Companion Applications

All information collected by the applications is sent directly to your hosted instance of Home Assistant. This includes, but is not limited to, sensor, health, and location data, which at times is sent while the application is in the background. At no point is this data logged or given to a 3rd party.

## Privacy Policy Changes

Although most changes are likely to be minor, Home Assistant may change its Privacy Policy from time to time, and in Home Assistant’s sole discretion. Home Assistant encourages visitors to frequently check this page for any changes to its Privacy Policy. Your continued use of this site after any change in this Privacy Policy will constitute your acceptance of such change.

### Change log

- October 19, 2017: Initial version
- October 19, 2020: Add information about Companion Applications
- October 30, 2024: Add health data to Companion Applications

_This privacy policy has been adapted from the [Automattic privacy policy][Home Assistant] and is licensed [Creative Commons ShareAlike][cc]._

[Home Assistant]: https://automattic.com/privacy/
[cc]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/
